News Articles (#224)
fluid-project/floeproject.org: src/news/2021-07-06-Reducing-Barriers-to-Virtual-Health.md

---
title: Reducing Barriers to Virtual Health
filename: Reducing-Barriers-to-Virtual-Health
date: '2021-07-06'
---

The IUI project team at the IDRC is pleased to share the [Guide for Reducing Barriers to Virtual Health](https://wiki.fluidproject.org/display/IUIGFVP/Guide+for+Reducing+Barriers+to+Virtual+Healthcare)
and its accompanying [Personal Preferences Approach to personalizing healthcare](https://wiki.fluidproject.org/display/IUIGFVP/Section+-+Software+Approaches+for+Expressing+Personal+Preferences+for+Healthcare).

The guide has two main purposes: 1) to identify the virtual healthcare needs of Canadians and 2) to provide guidance for
reducing the barriers in receiving care. The guide incorporates the input and collaboration of co-design participants of
various lived experiences and backgrounds, and healthcare practitioners from across Canada. It also includes insights

> from literature research and our collective experiences in Inclusive Design. For more information on the methodology

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from literature research and the project team's collective experiences in Inclusive Design. For more information on the methodology
```

used to create this initial version of the guide, please visit this project wiki page: [Methodology used to create the Guide](https://wiki.fluidproject.org/display/IUIGFVP/Methodology+used+to+create+the+Guide).

The Personal Preferences Approach explores a system that allows for the expression of personal preferences for virtual
healthcare and responding to these preferences in a meaningful way that reduces barriers. This system is informed by the
principles, practices, and approaches from the Guide for Reducing Barriers to Virtual Healthcare and builds on previous

> work for Learner Options. Although this approach is contextualized for healthcare, the ideas can be applied to other

Reviewer: I feel like the term "Learner Options" should link to somewhere for more information. Any suggestions?

domains such as education, and more.

> As always, this work is not intended to be complete or static. We welcome input, participation, and further evolution of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As always, this work is not intended to be complete or static. The project team welcomes input, participation, and further evolution of
```
